Commence the Commands will gently and humorously introduce you to the useful
art of controlling a Linux computer using the keyboard, rather than the
mouse. It comes in the form of a quick-start guide, which should take about
30 minutes to study. In addition, it is combined with practical exercises,
which should take about 90 minutes to do.

This minibook is a part of a full-length book, entitled Linux Doesn't
Have to Be Hard: A Beginner's Guide, comprehensively covering not only the
command line, but also other fundamental Linux features. The full-length
book has not been published yet and is currently work-in-progress. If you
like this quick-start guide, please subscribe to the Userbie Newsletter
<http://userbie.com/newsletter>, where newly published free Linux guides
will be announced.

A crowdfunding campaign will be organised to fund the publication of the
full-length book. Please subscribe to the newsletter above for information
about the campaign.

This guide, as well as the full-length book, are intended for novice Linux
systems administrators or ordinary Linux users that want to learn more about
their operating system. To make the most out of this book, you are advised
to read it next to a Linux machine, so that you can immediately practice
what you learn.

This quick-start guide covers accessing and searching the Linux manuals,
as well as working with files and directories. It is the minimal information
you need to get started with the command line.  

This book belongs to the Userbie series of guides, which are available
gratis. They are community-developed and you are encouraged to
contribute. Click on the [feedback] link, located at the end of every
paragraph, to provide feedback to the maintainers. If your suggested changes
are incorporated into the guide, your name will feature as a contributor to
the guide.

This book has been originally written by Paul Cobbaut. Its
maintenance has since been taken over by Aleksander Korzynski and
the Userbie team. The latest version of this guide is available at:
<http://userbie.com/commence-the-commands>.

This edition has been created by Aleksander Korzynski. Feel free to contact
him at <ak@wants-no-spam.akorzy.com> (remove wants-no-spam.). His personal
website is located at <http://akorzy.com>.

The publisher of this edition is KZS Press, trading name of KZS Commerce
Ltd, 7 Kings Avenue, Manchester, Greater Manchester, M8 5AS, United Kingdom.

Copyright © 2007-2015, 2020 Netsec BVBA, Paul Cobbaut, Aleksander Korzynski

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 published by the
Free Software Foundation; with no Front-Cover Texts, no Back-Cover Texts and
an Invariant Section entitled Preface; with Aleksander Korzynski as the proxy
for deciding if a later version of the license can be used. A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled GNU Free Documentation License.

Linux® is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the U.S. and other
countries. UNIX® is a registered trademark of The Open Group.  


** Dependencies

- Java : on Ubuntu we use the Canonical partner provided sun-java6-bin
  package. We have a JAVAHOME hardcoded to this somewhere in the build script.
  - sun-java6-bin
  - default-jdk
- xmlto : for building the html pages
- fop : for building pdf documents

** Build commands

- make.sh : builds the pdf, run it without arguments to get some help.

